OK so here we have the definition of exponential functions.
They are functions that have a variable in other words a letter in the exponent part.
So again it's a function that has a letter in the exponent part and the generic form of an exponential
function looks like this.
Fallbacks equals
a to the X.
So notice that this function has a letter in the exponent part.
So A is a number
and X is the input.
But again x is the exponent of this.
So let me show you a couple of examples.
So for example if we have something like this f of x equals
2 to the X this is an exponential function.
You have a letter in the exponents and the base is a number.
OK.
Another example would be.
So for example we can say 10 to the X.
So again we have a letter here in the exponent.
So the input is up here.
And another example would be f of x equals
4 to the 3 x.
So check it out.
This was a little bit different but it's still an exponential function instead of having just X in the
exponent.
Here we have three Yax.
So if you plug in a number into this function you're going to get that input you're going to multiply
it by three and that's going to give you your exponents and then you're going to raise this base to
that exponent.
And by the way let me just market here that this number that you're exponentiate ing is called the base.
All right
so for example here the base is to here the base is 10.
And here the base is for and all of these are examples of exponential functions.
Like I said for it to be an exponential function it doesn't mean that only the X is there.
You could have stuff like this you could have for example 3x OK.
And one tidbit of information about exponential functions is that they grow very quickly.
That is something to note.
And let me show you an example.
Let's actually pick this second one over here.
So let's say that X equals
10 to the X and let's plug in a couple of values.
So let's plug in for example one just to start with I was going to give us 10 to 1.
So that was 10
but what if we plug in.
All right.
So that's going to give us 10 to the three which is 10 multiplied by itself three times that's 10 times
ten is a hundred times ten more is a thousand.
So you see how we just increase the input by 2 from 1 to 3.
But then the output increase very quickly.
We went from 10 to 1000.
Let's try it one more number
of six let's say.
So we're going to plug in six over here.
So that's going to give us 10 to the 6.
So that's 10 multiplied by itself six times.
So it's going to be basically 10 to the three times ten to the three and that's a property that we'll
see you later on.
But that's going to be again a thousand times a thousand.
And that's going to be one million Juan 0 0 0 0 0 0 lots of zeroes.
So come here and come here.
So by going from one to six in the input we went from ten to a million.
So as you can see they definitely grow very quickly.
One more thing I wanted to talk about is that I actually considered creating a mnemonic to remind you
what an exponential function is.
However look at it the name itself says it exponential exponent.
So an exponential function has the input in the exponent.
All right.
That is how you remember.
And these are the basics of exponential functions.
Later on we'll find out or find derivatives of these functions.